Port MASTG-TEST-0032: Testing WebView Protocol Handlers (android) (#3177)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASTG-TEST-0252.md

weakness: MASWE-0069
best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0010, MASTG-BEST-0011, MASTG-BEST-0012]
status: new
---

## Overview

This test checks for references to methods from the [`WebSettings`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebSettings.html) class used by Android WebViews which [enable loading content from various sources, including local files](../../../Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md/#webview-local-file-access-settings). If improperly configured, these methods can introduce security risks such as unauthorized file access and data exfiltration. These methods are:

- `setAllowFileAccess`: allows the WebView to load local files from the app's internal storage or external storage.
- `setAllowFileAccessFromFileURLs`: lets JavaScript within those local files access other local files.
- `setAllowUniversalAccessFromFileURLs`: removes any cross-origin restrictions, allowing that JavaScript to read data across origins. The JavaScript **can always send data to any origin** (e.g. via `POST`), regardless of this setting; this setting only affects reading data (e.g. the code wouldn't get a response to a `POST` request but the data would still be sent).

> By combining these settings, an attack can become possible because if a malicious HTML file gains full privilege and it's able to access local resources and then exfiltrate them over the network, effectively bypassing the usual security barriers enforced by the same-origin policy.

Reviewer: Align this with the other tests? It was worded much nicer in the other tests.

> Even though these methods have secure defaults and are **deprecated in Android 10 (API level 29) and later**, they can still be explicitly set to `true` or use their insecure defaults in apps that can run in older versions of Android (due to their `minSdkVersion`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though these methods have secure defaults and are **deprecated in Android 10 (API level 29) and later**, they can still be explicitly set to `true` or their insecure defaults may be used in apps that run on older versions of Android (due to their `minSdkVersion`).
```
